SURF-445 Document GQL labeled predicate (G111 / CIP-249). (#1507)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/deprecations-additions-removals-compatibility.adoc

Features removed in Cypher 25 are still available on Neo4j 2025.06+ databases either by prepending a query with `CYPHER 5` or by having Cypher 5 as the default language for the database.
For more information, see xref:queries/select-version.adoc[].

[[cypher-deprecations-additions-removals-2026.04]]
== Neo4j 2026.04

=== New in Cypher 25

[cols="2", options="header"]
|===
| Feature
| Details

a|
label:functionality[]
label:new[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
FOR x IN [1, 2, 3]
RETURN x
----

a|

> The xref:clauses/for.adoc[`FOR`] clause (optional GQL feature xref:appendix/gql-conformance/supported-optional.adoc#gq10[GQ10]) expands a list into rows using GQL conformant syntax: `FOR variable IN expression`.

Reviewer: Why is FOR here? that is a separate PR

[[cypher-deprecations-additions-removals-2026.04]]
== Neo4j 2026.04

=== New in Cypher 25

[cols="2", options="header"]
|===
| Feature
| Details

a|
label:functionality[]
label:new[]
[source, cypher, role="noheader"]
----
MATCH (n:Person)
RETURN n IS LABELED Manager AS isManager
----

a|

> xref:expressions/predicates/label-expression-predicates.adoc#is-labeled-predicate[`IS [NOT] LABELED` predicate]: expression syntax aligned with GQL for testing a node or relationship against a label expression, equivalent to the existing colon form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
xref:expressions/predicates/label-expression-predicates.adoc#is-labeled-predicate[`IS [NOT\] LABELED` predicate]: tests a node or relationship against a label expression, equivalent to the existing colon form.
```

> xref:expressions/predicates/label-expression-predicates.adoc#is-labeled-predicate[`IS [NOT] LABELED` predicate] (optional GQL xref:appendix/gql-conformance/supported-optional.adoc#g111[feature G111]): expression syntax aligned with GQL for testing a node or relationship against a label expression, equivalent to the existing colon form (e.g. `n IS LABELED A\|B` matches `n:A\|B`). Includes shorthand `n IS NOT <label-expression>` for `IS NOT LABELED`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
xref:expressions/predicates/label-expression-predicates.adoc#is-labeled-predicate[`IS [NOT] LABELED` predicate]: expression syntax for testing a node or relationship against a label expression, equivalent to the existing colon form.
```
